add dbt compile faq (#3211)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/faqs/Warehouse/db-connection-dbt-compile.md

---
title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?
description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to perform introspective queries and generate the compiled SQL"
sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

> The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command is a really important step in the dbt workflow. This is because it transforms the raw SQL in dbt models and tests into compiled SQL, which is optimized for running on a specific data platform. The compiled SQL includes SQL queries that are generated by dbt, such as query parts for incremental models, `ref` macros, and other [dbt-specific syntax](reference/node-selection/syntax).

Reviewer: > which is optimized for running on a specific data platform.

The word "optimized" feels sorta funny here, because it implies there are automagical optimizations happening, and it's a more transparent process than that. How about just: "appropriate to run on a specific data platform"

> such as query parts for incremental models

As you mention in the paragraph below - the compiled SQL _won't_ include the DDL/DML statements (`create`, `delete` + `insert`, `merge`) that wrap the model's compiled `select` statement. So by this are you just thinking, the `where` filter that users stick (by convention) in an `{% is_incremental() %}` macro?

Author: yes that's right, i think that's pretty much that only scenario? i also used [this slack thread](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0VLZPLAE/p1642017170109600?thread_ts=1642008433.106300&cid=C0VLZPLAE) as a resource on this and my project confirms it doesn't include `where` 
![Screenshot 2023-04-19 at 14 38 55](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89008547/233093079-337bc622-39ae-4c52-baf8-93b5162abdf0.png)

Reviewer: ah yes - that's a bug in `dbt-RPC` :) (https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-rpc/issues/46)

we're hoping to fix that in the new IDE backend, starting with v1.5+ !

> The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command is a really important step in the dbt workflow. This is because it transforms the raw SQL in dbt models and tests into compiled SQL, which is optimized for running on a specific data platform. The compiled SQL includes SQL queries that are generated by dbt, such as query parts for incremental models, `ref` macros, and other [dbt-specific syntax](reference/node-selection/syntax).

Author: ```suggestion
The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command is a really important step in the dbt workflow. This is because it transforms the raw SQL in dbt models and tests into compiled SQL, which is appropriate to run on a specific data platform. The compiled SQL includes SQL queries that are generated by dbt, such as query parts for incremental models, `ref` macros, and other [dbt-specific syntax](reference/node-selection/syntax).
```

> To generate this compiled SQL, dbt needs to run introspective queries against the data platform to understand its schema and available resources. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt cannot perform these introspective queries and will not be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries against the data platform. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt cannot perform these introspective queries and will not be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.
```

> To generate this compiled SQL, dbt needs to run introspective queries against the data platform to understand its schema and available resources. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt cannot perform these introspective queries and will not be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Reviewer: This feels broadly correct. I might just change the first sentence to something more like:
> To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries against the data platform.

The key points to hit are:
- Caching speeds up the quick "metadata" checks, such as checking whether an incremental model already exists in the database (= incremental rebuild)
- If models use macros such as `run_query` or `dbt_utils.get_column_values` to template out their SQL, those require introspective queries, and so dbt needs to run those queries during model SQL compilation

Also: It feels like we should define (or link to a definition of) what we mean by "introspective" queries

> In addition, in a future where materializations can report more of what they're going to do before they do it, a compile task will still require a data platform connection. Although, if you only want to parse your project and write out [`manifest.json`](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), that can be done with the [`dbt ls` command](/reference/commands/list), without a data platform connection. However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

Reviewer: > In addition, in a future where materializations can report more of what they're going to do before they do it, a compile task will still require a data platform connection.

Let's cut this line for now - it's not a near-term plan/priority

---

Yes! You can `parse` a project, and `list` resources in the project, without an Internet / database connection. Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default.

You still need _a connection profile_ (`profiles.yml`) because there are configurations in the project that may depend on the contents of that profile for configuration — i.e. if they use [`{{ target }}`](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configuration, which many many people do. But during parsing, dbt won't actually connect to the database / run any queries.

Author: ```suggestion
You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. You do need a connection profile (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI) because there are configurations in the project that depend on the contents of that profile for configuration, such as using [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs. Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default. 

However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.
```

> In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to perform introspective queries and generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow. Without a data platform connection, dbt cannot compile your SQL and will not be able to perform transformations on your data.

Reviewer: These sentences are effectively saying the same thing - let's combine into one?
> In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the information it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

Author: good shout!
```suggestion
In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the information it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.
```

---
title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?

> description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to perform introspective queries and generate the compiled SQL"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"
```

(I will accept "platform" instead of warehouse if we have to, but in the tiny description I would like to be able to emphasise comprehensibility over casting a wide net)

sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

> The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command is a really important step in the dbt workflow. This is because it transforms the raw SQL in dbt models and tests into compiled SQL, which is appropriate to run on a specific data platform. The compiled SQL includes SQL queries that are generated by dbt, such as query parts for incremental models, `ref` macros, and other [dbt-specific syntax](reference/node-selection/syntax).

Reviewer 2: >really important step in the dbt workflow

This is true, but a common misconception is that it's necessary to `dbt compile` before you `dbt run`, and I worry that this reinforces that misconception. I think you could drop that whole sentence and not do any harm:

The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command ~is a really important step in the dbt workflow. This is because it~ transforms the raw SQL in dbt models [...]

Reviewer 2: >The compiled SQL includes SQL queries that are generated by dbt, such as query parts for incremental models, `ref` macros, and other [dbt-specific syntax](reference/node-selection/syntax).

I'm not super clear on what this means

Reviewer: > This is true, but a common misconception is that it's necessary to `dbt compile` before you `dbt run`, and I worry that this reinforces that misconception.

big +1 to this

> To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries against the data platform. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt cannot perform these introspective queries and will not be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries, (when dbt needs to run SQL in order to pull data back and do something with it) against the data platform. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.
```

> To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries, (when dbt needs to run SQL in order to pull data back and do something with it) against the data platform. These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Reviewer 2: Does "resolving macros" here derive from jerco's comment of "resolve things like `is_incremental()` and `ref()`"? I read it as resolving custom macros, but I don't know what macro resolution would mean here in that context.

If that's not what you meant then you'll have to tweak this suggestion a bit! 

```suggestion
To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries, (when dbt needs to run SQL in order to pull data back and do something with it) against the data platform. These introspective queries include:
- populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache),
- resolving [`ref`s](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/ref) when deferring to an earlier run,
- checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models),
- using package macros like [get_column_values](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils#get_column_values-source) or [get_relations_by_pattern](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-utils#get_relations_by_pattern-source).
Without a database connection, dbt can't generate the correct SQL to run.
```

> You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. You do need a connection profile (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI) because there are configurations in the project that depend on the contents of that profile for configuration, such as using [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs. Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default. 

Reviewer 2: >such as using [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs

And knowing what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavour of SQL right?

>Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default.

Is this relevant here? I don't know what to do with this information - @jtcohen6 were you adding background context or did this need to go into the doc?

Reviewer: > And knowing what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavour of SQL right?

That's true too! We're not doing much model SQL compilation at parse time, but this is important for capturing macro dependencies.

> @jtcohen6 were you adding background context or did this need to go into the doc?

Sorry! Just background context. I'd suggest either cutting the last sentence entirely, or replacing it with something like: "Parsing a project is also sufficient to produce [a manifest](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/artifacts/manifest-json)." I think that will be interesting to some readers, but potentially confusing to others.

However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

> In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the information it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I've been reading too much ChatGPT, but my "a robot wrote this" light starts blinking anytime I see an "in conclusion" block nowadays 😬 you are obviously not a robot, but I wonder if we could drop this? It's only 3 paragraphs in total so it's already pretty "in short"

Author: in conclusion and for instance are the most common words i've seen in chatgpt so far. i can assure you i'm not a robot 😅 (i think ) but what i was going for was putting a tl;dr here to summarize the top for users. fair suggestion

---
title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?
description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"
sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

> The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command transforms raw SQL into dbt models and tests into compiled SQL. `compile` is similar to `run` except `compile` doesn't materialize the model's compiled SQL into an existing table. So, up until the point of materialization, `compile` and `run` are similar because they both require a data platform connection, run queries, and have an [`execute` variable](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) set to `True`. A few things to note:

Author: ```suggestion
The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command generates executable SWL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 

`dbt compile` is similar to `dbt run` except that it doesn't materialize the model's compiled SQL into an existing table. So, up until the point of materialization, `dbt compile` and `dbt run` are similar because they both require a data platform connection, run queries, and have an [`execute` variable](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) set to `True`. There are a few things to note:
```

- It isn't necessary to execute `dbt compile` before `dbt run`

> - In dbt, `compile` doesn't mean `parse` &mdash;`parse` validates your written `YAML`, configured tags, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
- In dbt, `compile` doesn't mean `parse`. This is because `parse` validates your written `YAML`, configured tags, and so on.
```

To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries, (which is when dbt needs to run SQL in order to pull data back and do something with it) against the data platform.

 These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

> You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. You do need a connection profile (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI) because there are configurations in the project that depend on the contents of that profile for configuration, such as using [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs. Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use the [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. 

However, to configure a project you do need a [connection profile](/docs/core/connection-profiles) (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI). You need this file because the project's configuration depends on its contents. For example, you may need to use [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs or know what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavor of SQL. 

Parsing a project is also sufficient to produce a [manifest](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json). 
```

However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
So to summarize, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the info it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.
```

 These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. You do need a connection profile (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI) because there are configurations in the project that depend on the contents of that profile for configuration, such as using [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs. Starting in v1.5, `dbt parse` will also (over)write `manifest.json` by default. 

However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

> In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the information it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

Author: ```suggestiont.
```

> In short, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the information it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

Author: ```suggestion
```

description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"
sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command generates executable SWL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 

`dbt compile` is similar to `dbt run` except that it doesn't materialize the model's compiled SQL into an existing table. So, up until the point of materialization, `dbt compile` and `dbt run` are similar because they both require a data platform connection, run queries, and have an [`execute` variable](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) set to `True`. There are a few things to note:

- It isn't necessary to execute `dbt compile` before `dbt run`
- In dbt, `compile` doesn't mean `parse`. This is because `parse` validates your written `YAML`, configured tags, and so on.

To generate the compiled SQL for many models, dbt needs to run introspective queries, (which is when dbt needs to run SQL in order to pull data back and do something with it) against the data platform.

>  These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
 These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a data platform connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.
```

>  These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a data platform connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
These introspective queries include:

- populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache). Catching speeds up the quick metadata checks, including whether an incremental model already exists in the data platform. 
- resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), such as `run_query` or `dbt_utils.get_column_values` that you're using to template out your SQL. This is because dbt needs to run those queries during model SQL compilation. 
- and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). 

Without a data platform connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.
```

 These introspective queries include populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache), resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). Without a database connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use the [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. 

However, to configure a project you do need a [connection profile](/docs/core/connection-profiles) (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI). You need this file because the project's configuration depends on its contents. For example, you may need to use [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs or know what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavor of SQL. 

> Parsing a project is also sufficient to produce a [manifest](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json). 

Author: ```suggestion
Parsing a project is also sufficient to produce a [manifest](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json).  However, keep in mind that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.
```

> However, something to note is that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?
description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"
sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

> The [`dbt compile` command](/reference/commands/compile) generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the info it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

The [`dbt compile` command](/reference/commands/compile) generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 
```

---
title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?
description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"
sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"
id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

> The [`dbt compile`](reference/commands/compile) command generates executable SWL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 

Author: ```suggestion
The [`dbt compile`](/reference/commands/compile) command generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 
```

> The [`dbt compile`](/reference/commands/compile) command generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 

Author: ```suggestion
The [`dbt compile` command](/reference/commands/compile) generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. 
```

- and checking if models are [incremental](/docs/build/incremental-models). 

Without a data platform connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow.

You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use the [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. 

However, to configure a project you do need a [connection profile](/docs/core/connection-profiles) (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI). You need this file because the project's configuration depends on its contents. For example, you may need to use [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs or know what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavor of SQL. 

Parsing a project is also sufficient to produce a [manifest](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json).  However, keep in mind that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

> So to summarize, `dbt compile` needs a data platform connection to gather the info it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---

> title: Why dbt compile needs a data platform connection?

Author: ```suggestion
title: Why dbt compile needs a data platform connection
```

> title: Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?

Author: ```suggestion
title: Why dbt compile needs a data platform connection?
```

description: "`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection because the work it does depends on the current state of your warehouse"

> sidebar_label: "Why does dbt compile need a data platform connection?"

Author: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Why dbt compile needs a data platform connection"
```

id: db-connection-dbt-compile
---

`dbt compile` needs a data platform connection in order to gather the info it needs (including from introspective queries) to prepare the SQL for every model in your project.

> ### `dbt compile`

Author: ```suggestion
### dbt compile
```

> The [`dbt compile` command](/reference/commands/compile) generates executable SQL from source, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. `dbt compile` is similar to `dbt run` except that it doesn't materialize the model's compiled SQL into an existing table. So, up until the point of materialization, `dbt compile` and `dbt run` are similar because they both require a data platform connection, run queries, and have an [`execute` variable](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) set to `True`. 

Author: ```suggestion
The [`dbt compile` command](/reference/commands/compile) generates executable SQL from `source`, `model`, `test`, and `analysis` files. `dbt compile` is similar to `dbt run` except that it doesn't materialize the model's compiled SQL into an existing table. So, up until the point of materialization, `dbt compile` and `dbt run` are similar because they both require a data platform connection, run queries, and have an [`execute` variable](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) set to `True`. 
```

These introspective queries include:

- Populating the [relation cache](/guides/advanced/creating-new-materializations#update-the-relation-cache). Caching speeds up the metadata checks, including whether an [incremental model](/docs/build/incremental-models) already exists in the data platform. 
- Resolving [macros](/docs/build/jinja-macros#macros), such as `run_query` or `dbt_utils.get_column_values` that you're using to template out your SQL. This is because dbt needs to run those queries during model SQL compilation. 

Without a data platform connection, dbt can't perform these introspective queries and won't be able to generate the compiled SQL needed for the next steps in the dbt workflow. You can [`parse`](/reference/commands/parse) a project and use the [`list`](/reference/commands/list) resources in the project, without an internet or data platform connection. Parsing a project is enough to produce a [manifest](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), however, keep in mind that the written-out manifest won't include compiled SQL.

> To configure a project you do need a [connection profile](/docs/core/connection-profiles) (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI). You need this file because the project's configuration depends on its contents. For example, you may need to use [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs or know what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavor of SQL. 

Author: ```suggestion
To configure a project, you do need a [connection profile](/docs/core/connection-profiles) (`profiles.yml` if using the CLI). You need this file because the project's configuration depends on its contents. For example, you may need to use [`{{target}}`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) for conditional configs or know what platform you're running against so that you can choose the right flavor of SQL. 
```
